something something easy I could say
with this album I could really easily
say to you Oh on this album The
Hunchback project little B returns to
what made his music great in the first
place much like my idea of what made his
music great it is probably completely
different from yours he's really
returning to that anguished earnest tone
that came through you know not
consistently that came through in from
time to time in fits and starts that
came through on those earlier albums you
know including you know the gods father
mixtape and what am i hearing from
little B during that period of my life a
lot of songs where he's struggling to
give voice to you know disappointments
in his own life a lot of sorrow a lot of
agony you have that sense of progression
of yearning and then you have the
recrimination to look back on his own
life
it's especially dark when he's
reflecting on who his friends are how
he's been surrounded by people who
aren't really his friends it's almost
made more more effective and more
evocative because little B is not a
natural poet a lot of time what you hear
is his struggle to get that across in
words and his struggle to get that
across in music it's not effortless
[Music]
that sense of the struggle that sense of
the soro
you know it comes across in you know
like 100 songs on this guy's record and
I recognize you listen this video now
you may have never heard that side
little beat you may have only heard this
guy doing a novelty dance the cooking
dance or making fun of Ellen DeGeneres
doing these really weird tracks you may
not realize that there really is
something people connect to on an
emotional level the you know little B is
a lot more meaningful to the lives of a
lot of his fans than like the Beatles
White Album is the stereotypical people
who grew up in the 1960s this video is
partly just a review of the new album
came out from little B September 2019
The Hunchback project it's partly also a
set of reflections on how I became a fan
of little B Y I'm a fan of little B
because I realized this video will
partly be seen by people people who are
already fans a little bead as music to
some extent people who are maybe
wondering is this new album worth
downloading is it one of his best albums
is one of his worst just where is it
stay on the spectrum like people already
fans were interested in hearing critical
opinion of the album but I know this
video is also going to be seen by people
who just have no idea why anyone would
be a fan of little D in his music and I
am I'm a fan of this guy's work with
zero irony you know and every so often I
see questions on the internet people
just asking like look I understand
they're kind of all these jokes
surrounding this guy like I understand
you know there are these kind of memes
on the internet people just kind of
repeat these catchphrases but is anybody
out there like really a fan of little
penis music does anyone like
connect with this authentically or is it
just one of these things in the internet
where people keep repeating the joke
again and again and it's not funny
anymore and you know if you also are
like on ironically a little B fan you
must realize that the majority of people
who have encountered his music did so by
seeing like a viral video in which he's
making fun of Ellen DeGeneres and just
repeating the word swag again in the can
with like intentionally no rhythm like
sort of some of the early work that was
like a parody on celebrity culture and a
kind of self-hating reaction to
celebrity culture in Los Angeles and his
own place and his own experience in Los
Angeles you know and it wasn't just
Ellen DeGeneres he made a whole series
of songs like that you realize I mean
maybe even if you are a fan yourself the
first time you encounter blue bead and
this subculture of surrounding them on
the internet kind of raising one eyebrow
and what then even a step beyond that if
you're someone who once gave this guy a
chance and downloaded his albums you
know I remember myself he put out a
track that you know the old heads could
really appreciate he put on a track
called my arms of the Brooklyn Bridge
people try to hate the second guess what
I'm doing man and then the dough line
let's just think you Hogan's me and even
the people who really kind of hated him
on WorldStarHipHop at the time this is
years ago a lot of people like okay all
right we can recognize this this is like
conventional hip-hop whether old school
or new school we can recognize you know
the craft is here you know there's a
certain kind of sentiment a substance
here where people set up and said okay
now we're willing to listen but a lot of
those same people would then get
frustrated because he might put out like
50 tracks like a whole pile of music
several projects or whatever that then
didn't have that quality or that
direction where he was taking things in
a totally different artistic direction
me away oh yeah
so another one of the problems I mean
just for the fandom for little B I mean
someone who jumped on at the gods father
mixtape and we're expecting him to move
consistently in that direction well he
didn't he's a creative artist who really
moves in a lot of different directions
at the same time and a lot of different
directions over the same period of five
years most [ __ ] funny let pieces not
looking down on like children what
happened so like something something
easy I could say with this album I could
really easily say to you Oh
on this album The Hunchback project
little B returns to what made his music
great in the first place much like my
idea of what made his music great it is
probably completely different from yours
the guy's body of work there are so many
tracks in the stack like you know even
within some of those albums you and I
may not be thinking of the same songs on
the gods father mixtape but money eat
was killing if you think about it
everybody's willing to get a million
mother [ __ ] pay the price over who's
made sugar you and I may not be thinking
of the same songs over a 10-year period
we're intentionally or unintentionally
we're picking and choosing our version
of what it is we think little B ought to
be what direction we think his music
ought to go in in future and what made
it great in the past now like obviously
you could say that's true of a lot of
mainstream artists you could say that's
true of the Beatles or a Bob Dylan like
two different Bob Dylan fans have
different periods they appreciate from
God Bob Dylan's music it's way more
extreme with little be the the diversity
that exists within his work and just how
many thousands of songs you're talking
about and then like what I want to come
back to here even the question of how
did you as a fan if you're on I wanna
clea fan this guy's work how did you
first discover it and make some kind of
emotional
connection with it because I think it is
I think it is really a question of
whether or not you found something in
that bottle of body of work that really
means something you really moves you
emotionally so again I'm saying this
with zero irony I was one of those guys
who gave little be a second chance
back when the my arms of the Brooklyn
Bridge came out so you put up this track
Brooklyn Bridge and it's like okay you
know so this is hip hop as I know what
this is rap news because I know what I'm
I'm willing to listen and I googled
around the internet at that time I found
a bunch of blogs talking but little B
but most of them were abandoned but they
kind of already started up and shut down
and a lot of those blogs were saying
look you know this is an artist who puts
out hundreds of songs and then for you
as a listener you got a sift through
them and find what it is you think it's
worth listening to
but that's that's the those the rules
this guy plays by it's not like the old
days of people paying $20 and getting
eight songs on a disc music is free and
there's a lot of it and some of them are
finished songs and some of them are just
like sketches incomplete ideas set down
on paper in this new project the
hunchback project it falls into three
neat categories there were fifty tracks
on the album 55 zero but you basically
have a conventional album at the start
with some concept tracks and lyrical
tracks then there's a middle section of
the of the desk where everyone say
there's a middle section which is like a
completely separate acoustic album it's
saw a collection of tracks with no with
no lyrics instrumentals you know
[Music]
some of those are very impressive and
very interesting some of them a
wonderful it'll be will in future at
lyrics to them or a wonder if he's
putting them out there to invite other
people other aspiring rappers to rap
over the tracks some of them stand up
fine with no lyrics add to them but that
part may or may not interest you and
then there's a closing section of the
album that are free styles and there's a
big difference between the free styles
and the more composed for a section
yellow so you know like I don't think
that's nothing to criticize as I say in
an era when music is free it's not even
costing five cents to download it take
it or leave it if I think many people
would prefer to have a short tightly
organized album where every track means
something to them but those are not the
rules little B plays by as a creative
artist so look as I say at that stage
way back when arms of the Brooklyn
Bridge came out and I googled around a
little bit I already got the point that
you know this was an artist who put out
songs in bulk and then you as the
listener we're gonna edit that playlist
you were gonna decide for yourself what
stayed on your hard drive and what
didn't and again I just point out if
this new album The Hunchback project if
it has five songs that means something
to you that makes it a great album you
know and if only five songs at a 50 stay
in your hard drive that's not a loss for
a little B and it's not a loss for you
as a listener that makes it a great out
that's really worth really worth
downloading anyway the next big turning
point for me is when my wife got
pregnant so my wife knife now split up
many many years ago so ex-wife now it's
together with my wife she was pregnant
and during the pregnancy I made the
decision okay look I'm gonna delete all
the rap music off my harddrive cuz you
know I'm gonna have a new baby crawling
around I don't want to be listening to
music that consists of you know a lot of
curse words and a lot of you know
threats and boasting and stuff
okay well this can be a new period in my
life whether it lasts 10 years or 50
years or whatever
I'm now gonna have a period of my life
where I'm not listening to rap music at
all cuz I've got new new baby coming in
this world so my ex-wife and I ended up
in the hospital she gave birth to the
kid and when you go to the hospital you
don't know how long you're gonna be
there for you know the birth you know
you could just begin in you're out
overnight or in a few hours and we were
there for like a week or more forget
felt like a long time but I think we
were there for like a week and you know
we're vegan so I had to go out and buy
food and bring in the food for her it
was this really tense situation because
almost all of the doctors and nurses
just hated us there were two nurses who
were really nice to us that really
remember and one of them
she gave us like a card at the end so we
had her name and we actually tried to
send her a present in the mail send her
a gift like a thank-you gift because we
did ever names we looked at her name and
got an address I mean I really
appreciate the two people on staff who
did not treat us like garbage but man
the level of hatred and hostility we got
from the doctors and nurses at that
hospital was unbelievable and a lot of
that hostility not all of it but a lot
of it was because from their perspective
at this hospital in the South of France
they've regarded us as North African
black I know in that cultural context in
the South of France where they do have a
lot of black people from North Africa
who like in New York City would be
considered white like they really don't
have African features the racism and the
kind of colonial attitudes they're
really intense and really narrow and
some of the doctors and nurses who were
the meanest does who were the cruelest
us they were themselves of North African
ancestry
maybe not black but they were like some
kind of Arab from North Africa some kind
of Arabic person and like it goes a
little bit deeper than just racism their
feeling looking at us was
that they as this French medical doctor
they grew up connected in North Africa
connected to the Maghreb but that they
had fully assimilated they had like
adopted French civilization they were
now highly educated elite members of
French society and like here me and my
ex-wife they were looking down at us as
like unassimilated new immigrants from
North Africa - yeah if you think this is
my imagination like on two different
occasions they literally directly said
to us they refer to us as Africa in one
of them it was because they were
insisting that we get a blood test done
for the baby a special blood test to
check if she had genetic disorders that
your people have in Africa all right so
it's not mentioning [ __ ] that's it's not
the only reason they were they were so
awful to us but unbelievably I was put
in this situation where you know how
it's I know what sounds ridiculous I was
actually being despised for being a
black African in the South of France and
a lot of the people despising me they
themselves were to some extent North
Africa you know I bought bought a pair
of speakers and one of the reasons why
at that time I downloaded a bunch of the
albums from little B was that I knew in
the back of my mind was like oh yeah
that was kind of always something I had
in my mind of the things to do list I
knew I'd never been through this guys
back catalogue of albums and sifted
through you know the hundreds of tracks
and decided which ones I like to look I
knew that was something to do and I knew
that the music was available for free
like I wasn't going to in that hospital
start start downloading wu-tang or
something and like I say my hard drive
you know my hard drive was empty
that was that was such a dark such an
emotionally exhausting period of my life
you know having a new baby it should be
the happiest period of life
happiest few days your life instead it
was the most tragic it was the most
terrible and the conflict at that
hospital it meant it was real I've
mentioned this before on YouTube but at
one point I literally had to stop a
nurse from assaulting my wife now my
ex-wife my ex-wife was lying on the bed
she was bedridden it was just ridiculous
and you know when I when I physically I
just like went but like you know you you
really doing this
I remember she when she slammed that
door on the way out afterwards - it was
one of those you know one of those
hospital safety tours anyone mad I mean
it was so tense and so real and I was so
listen to little B I was going through
these tracks and you know when I'd go
into the city to pick up vegan food from
Acts wife we're vegan and none of the
none of the food nonspells vegan and
walking down the street whether or not I
was listening to little B at that minute
you know it was listening through a lot
of that stuff you know in and out of the
hospital then it's such a dark cloud or
M it's such a dark energy this is a town
in the South of France where they had
those narrow streets cobblestone streets
and there were pimps and drug dealers
and prostitutes on those streets not not
a ton not like an army but you know
there were homeless people and drug
dealers Knossos I don't even think
anything more to Rob anybody but there
were people out
and I was absolutely in that moment of
like you know I wish I wish you would I
wish you tried it even even if I've got
to spend the night in prison or
something because somebody jumps me on
the street man I'd be such oh I'd be so
happy to spend a night in prison now
instead of going back to that Hospital
you know so what you scare foe you think
about me pause [ __ ] no reaction he's
[Music]
so me I know that right through with the
month like a Mac and you know the the
other people on the street you know they
they picked up on it I can remember
there were like you know drug dealers in
the street who looked at me and they
were looking you know good do you
appreciate life not a [ __ ] like that ad
says me so [ __ ] believes it's not it's
not like a big road it's not like a big
Street in Detroit or something these are
these are little narrow streets in old
city so the France and yeah I didn't say
a word to anybody I didn't I didn't
threaten anybody but they were just
picking up on that you know that rather
be dead than alive
I wish you would vibe during a period of
my life is unbelievably unbelievably
emotionally you know just heart-rending
why are you in my house
I mean I thought she was my friend lot
of [ __ ]
and what am i hearing from little B
during that period of my life a lot of
songs where he's struggling to give
voice to you know disappointments in his
own life a lot of sorrow a lot of agony
a lot of you know I mean a lot of his
tracks even even musically you have that
sense of progression of yearning and
then you have the recrimination the look
back on his own life
it's especially dark when he's
reflecting on who his friends are how
he's been surrounded by people who
aren't really his friends you know
people who act like they're his friends
they're really trying to hold him back
they're ruining his life people he
thought he that he thought were his
friends you know aren't really that for
him he's got a lot of tracks talking
about being bullied in high school but I
never was that what being bullied was
not my problem I was not one of the
victims of bullying but you get this you
know this sorrow and this anguish coming
across the track and it's almost made
more more effective and more evocative
because little B is not a natural poet a
lot of time what you hear is his
struggle to get that across in words and
his struggle to get that across in music
it's not effortless that sense of the
struggle that sense of the sorrow you
know it comes across in you know like
100 songs on this guy's record and I
recognize you listen to this video now
you may have never heard that side
little B you may have only heard this
guy doing a novelty dance the cooking
dance or making fun of Ellen DeGeneres
so doing these really weird tracks you
may not realize that there really is
something people connect to on an
emotional level that you know little B
is a lot more meaningful to the lives of
a lot of his fans than like the Beatles
White Album is the stereotypical B
grew up in the 1960s you know there is
something there that people care about
and you know I'd say it's it's just as
much about the struggle of the messenger
as is about the message and that's part
of what makes this new album now the
Hunchback project an interesting turning
point in little B's own career the same
musical style that we saw in the black
canon project in terms of his
keyboarding he's now really pressed
further with that that's really taken
off if anything he's now demonstrating
that what he was interested in musically
in raindrops in London rain in London I
think that out like starting at the very
earliest of those those instrumental
projects through to the black can
project that he now has finally mastered
that that that's become easy for him
something he struggled to get to grips
with on one album after another and
let's not forget this guy who started
off by wrapping over beats other people
send him on MySpace you know now he's
really able to do with the keyboard
everything he wanted to do he's
completely shed the gangster persona
here I don't think there's a single
track on this album that's gangster you
know which is a great thing it's a
beautiful thing I think it's like he's
reached a point in his career where
there's enough substance form to deal
with emotionally that he doesn't need to
put on the put on the persona put on the
makeup put on the put on the wig of the
street gangster anymore lyric after
lyric in this album is him reflecting on
now being 30 years old the reason why
it's called the hunchback project is
that he's talking about being old
feeling the pain in his back and you
know travelling to take on a new
perspective on life lyrically the beauty
of this is he's really returning
to that anguished earnest tone that came
through you know not consistently that
came through in from time to time in
fits and starts that came through on
those earlier albums you know including
you know the gods father mixtape a
project that for many of us was when we
first started taking a little bit
seriously and watching where it was
gonna go with this
The Hunchback project it is possibly the
single greatest album the single
greatest project little bee has ever put
out possibly now he's got a huge catalog
he's got a lot of competition but the
fact that that debate could happen the
fact that this could be for you
subjectively the best projects ever put
out that really makes it worth
downloading that really makes it worth
talk
[Music]